Proofread Credential Endpoint section (#181)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

## Binding the Issued Credential to the Identifier of the End-User Possessing that Credential {#credential-binding}

> Issued Credential SHOULD be cryptographically bound to the identifier of the End-User who possesses the Credential. Cryptographic binding allows the Verifier to verify during the presentation of a Credential that the End-User presenting a Credential is the same End-User to whom that Credential was issued. For non-cryptographic types of binding and Credentials issued without any binding, see the Implementation Considerations in (#claim-based-binding) and (#no-binding).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An issued Credential SHOULD be cryptographically bound to the identifier of the End-User who possesses the Credential. Cryptographic binding allows the Verifier to verify during the presentation of a Credential that the End-User presenting a Credential is the same End-User to whom that Credential was issued. For non-cryptographic types of binding and Credentials issued without any binding, see the Implementation Considerations in (#claim-based-binding) and (#no-binding).
```

> Note: Claims in the Credential are usually about the End-User who possesses it, but can be about another entity.

Reviewer 2: Claims are related to the subject of the Credential. If it is the End-User these are related to the End-User

> Note: Claims in the Credential are about the subject of the credential, which is often End-User who possesses it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Claims in the Credential are about the subject of the Credential, which is often End-User who possesses it.
```

> Note: Claims in the Credential are about the subject of the Credential, which is often End-User who possesses it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: Claims in the Credential are about the subject of the Credential, which is often the End-User who possesses it.
```

> Note: Claims in the Credential are about the subject of the Credential, which is often End-User who possesses it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note: Claims in the Credential are about the subject of the Credential, which is often the End-User who possesses it.
```

Author: @tplooker your suggested change (adding "the") was already in place.  I think someone else found it first.

> For cryptographic binding, the Client has the options defined in (#credential_request) to provide cryptographic binding material for a requested Credential. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For cryptographic binding, the Client has the following options defined in (#credential_request) to provide cryptographic binding material for a requested Credential:
```

> For cryptographic binding, the Client has the following options to provide cryptographic binding material for a requested Credential, as defined in (#credential_request):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For cryptographic binding, the Client has the options defined in (#credential_request) to provide cryptographic binding material for a requested Credential. 
```

> 1. Provide proof of control alongside key material (`proof` that includes `sub_jwk` or `did`).
> 1. Provide only proof of control without the key material (`proof` that does not include `sub_jwk` or `did`).

Reviewer: These two options don't make sense to me and don't seem to be defined/explained in the following section (as suggested in the line above). `sub_jwk` doesn't even appear anywhere else in the document AFAIK. 
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I don't feel strongly about it but would still say it's editorial. It's cleaning up non-normative text that seems to have drifted out of sync with the rest of the document (or maybe has always been problematic). And cleaning it up by removing it because I have no idea how to fix it because I don't understand what it is trying to say.

Reviewer: It also correlates with the change in the line above 2dbf9326aa96eea6e0a2f836a5e39b10110bafe8

Author: FWIW, I agree with the deletion, for the reasons Brian stated.  If people concur that it's non-normative, I'll accept the change into this PR.

Reviewer 4: Im not against removing this text and agree it isn't normative, but I think the paragraph above it that is the pre-text for these options would also need to be remove. If instead this is kept we should fix the typo around the number list which is currently rendering 1. 1. instead of 1. 2.

Reviewer 5: I would like to keep these sentences because they make it clear that there is an option to issue a credential that is not bound to any cryptographically key material.

Reviewer: > the paragraph above it that is the pre-text for these options would also need to be remove

That paragraph/sentence had been adjusted with https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/commit/2dbf9326aa96eea6e0a2f836a5e39b10110bafe8 to make sense without the list following. 

> typo around the number list which is currently rendering 1. 1. instead of 1. 2.

AFAIK that's okay markdown syntax and it renders fine - see [that part in draft 12](https://openid.net/specs/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0-12.html#section-7.1-3)

> I would like to keep these sentences because they make it clear that there is an option to issue a credential that is not bound to any cryptographically key material.

I did not find that clarity in the text at all.

Reviewer 5: discussed during the Jan-23-2024 WG call. in this PR, agreed to remove the `sub_jwk` reference and potentially open a new issue/PR to discuss removing these two sentences.

> 1. Provide proof of control alongside key material (`proof` that includes `sub_jwk` or `did`).
> 1. Provide only proof of control without the key material (`proof` that does not include `sub_jwk` or `did`).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Provide proof of control alongside key material.
1. Provide only proof of control without the key material.
```

## Credential Request {#credential_request}

A Client makes a Credential Request to the Credential Endpoint by sending the following parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the `application/json` media type.

* `format`: REQUIRED when the `credential_identifier` was not returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. It is a String that determines the format of the Credential to be issued, which may determine the type and any other information related to the Credential to be issued. Credential Format Profiles consist of the Credential format specific parameters that are defined in (#format_profiles). When this parameter is used, the `credential_identifier` parameter MUST NOT be present.

> * `proof`: OPTIONAL. Object containing the proof of possession of the cryptographic key material the issued Credential would be bound to.  The `proof` object is REQUIRED if the `proof_types` parameter is non-empty and present in the `credential_configurations_supported` parameter of the Issuer metadata for the requested Credential. The `proof` object MUST contain the following claim:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `proof`: OPTIONAL. Object containing the proof of possession of the cryptographic key material the issued Credential would be bound to.  The `proof` object is REQUIRED if the `proof_types` parameter is non-empty and present in the `credential_configurations_supported` parameter of the Issuer metadata for the requested Credential. The `proof` object MUST contain the following:
```

>     * `proof_type`: REQUIRED. String denoting the key proof type. The value of this claim determines other claims in the key proof object and its respective processing rules. Key proof types defined in this specification can be found in (#proof_types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `proof_type`: REQUIRED. String denoting the key proof type. The value of this parameter determines other parameters in the key proof object and its respective processing rules. Key proof types defined in this specification can be found in (#proof_types).
```

* `credential_identifier`: REQUIRED when `credential_identifier` was returned from the Token Response. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. It is a String that identifies a Credential that is being requested to be issued. When this parameter is used, the `format` parameter and any other Credential format specific parameters such as those defined in (#format_profiles) MUST NOT be present.
* `credential_response_encryption`: OPTIONAL. Object containing information for encrypting the Credential Response. If this request element is not present, the corresponding credential response returned is not encrypted.
    * `jwk`: REQUIRED. Object containing a single public key as a JWK used for encrypting the Credential Response.
    * `alg`: REQUIRED. JWE [@!RFC7516] `alg` algorithm [@!RFC7518] for encrypting Credential Responses.
    * `enc`: REQUIRED. JWE [@!RFC7516] `enc` algorithm [@!RFC7518] for encrypting Credential Responses.

> The `proof_type` claim is an extension point that enables the use of different types of proofs for different cryptographic schemes.

Reviewer: it is not a claim

```suggestion
The `proof_type` is an extension point that enables the use of different types of proofs for different cryptographic schemes.
```

> The `proof_type` is an extension point that enables the use of different types of proofs for different cryptographic schemes.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The `proof_type` parameter is an extension point that enables the use of different types of proofs for different cryptographic schemes.
```
It has been this spec's convention not to use parameter name without a word parameter after it.

>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

Credential Response can be immediate or deferred. The Credential Issuer MAY be able to immediately issue a requested Credential and send it to the Client.

> In other cases, the Credential Issuer MAY NOT be able to immediately issue a requested Credential and would want to send a `transaction_id` parameter to the Client to be used later to receive a Credential when it is ready. The HTTP status code MUST be 202 (see Section 10.2.3 of [@!RFC2616]).

Reviewer: RFC2616 has been obsoleted (twice!) - this https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9110#section-15.3.3 is the current section for [202 Accepted](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9110#name-202-accepted)

```suggestion
In other cases, the Credential Issuer MAY NOT be able to immediately issue a requested Credential and would want to send a `transaction_id` parameter to the Client to be used later to receive a Credential when it is ready. The HTTP status code MUST be 202 (see Section 15.3.3 of [@!RFC9110]).
```

If the Client requested an encrypted response by including the `credential_response_encryption` object in the request, the Credential Issuer MUST encode the information in the Credential Response as a JWT using the  parameters from the `credential_response_encryption` object. If the Credential Response is encrypted, the media type of the response MUST be set to `application/jwt`. If encryption was requested in the Credential Request and the Credential Response is not encrypted, the Client SHOULD reject the Credential Response.

If the Credential Response is not encrypted, the media type of the response MUST be set to `application/json`.

> The following claims are used in the JSON-encoded Credential Response body:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following parameters are used in the JSON-encoded Credential Response body:
```

* `credential`: OPTIONAL. Contains issued Credential. It MUST be present when `transaction_id` is not returned. It MAY be a string or an object, depending on the Credential format. See (#format_profiles) for the Credential format specific encoding requirements.
* `transaction_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying a Deferred Issuance transaction. This claim is contained in the response if the Credential Issuer was unable to immediately issue the Credential. The value is subsequently used to obtain the respective Credential with the Deferred Credential Endpoint (see (#deferred-credential-issuance)). It MUST be present when the `credential` parameter is not returned. It MUST be invalidated after the Credential for which it was meant has been obtained by the Wallet.
* `c_nonce`: OPTIONAL. String containing a nonce to be used to create a proof of possession of key material when requesting a Credential (see (#credential_request)). When received, the Wallet MUST use this nonce value for its subsequent Credential Requests until the Credential Issuer provides a fresh nonce.
* `c_nonce_expires_in`: OPTIONAL. Number denoting the lifetime in seconds of the `c_nonce`.

> * `notification_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the Notification Request as defined in (#notification ). This parameter MUST NOT be present if `credential` parameter is not present.

Reviewer 6: Cross-reference is not rendered as link

```suggestion
* `notification_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the Notification Request as defined in (#notification). This parameter MUST NOT be present if `credential` parameter is not present.
```

Reviewer 5: good catch!

> The `format` value determines the Credential format and encoding of the credential in the Credential Response. Details are defined in the Credential Format Profiles in (#format_profiles).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The value of the `format` parameter determines the Credential format and encoding of the credential in the Credential Response. Details are defined in the Credential Format Profiles in (#format_profiles).
```

If the Wallet is requesting the issuance of a Credential that is not supported by the Credential Endpoint, the HTTP response MUST use the HTTP status code 400 (Bad Request) and set the content type to `application/json` with the following parameters in the JSON-encoded response body:

> * `error`: REQUIRED. A name at the top level of the object, the value of which SHOULD be a single ASCII [@!USASCII] error code from the following:

Reviewer 5: Don't think "name" fits well here..

Reviewer 3: All items in the list are parameters and are at the top level. We can simplify this as follows:
```suggestion
* `error`: REQUIRED. The `error` parameter SHOULD be a single ASCII [@!USASCII] error code from the following:
```

Reviewer: +1 to @awoie's suggestion here

  * `invalid_credential_request`: The Credential Request is missing a required parameter, includes an unsupported parameter or parameter value, repeats the same parameter, or is otherwise malformed.
  * `unsupported_credential_type`: Requested Credential type is not supported.
  * `unsupported_credential_format`: Requested Credential format is not supported.
  * `invalid_proof`: The `proof` in the Credential Request is invalid. The `proof` field is not present or the provided key proof is invalid or not bound to a nonce provided by the Credential Issuer.
  * `invalid_encryption_parameters`: This error occurs when the encryption parameters in the Credential Request are either invalid or missing. In the latter case, it indicates that the Credential Issuer requires the Credential Response to be sent encrypted, but the Credential Request does not contain the necessary encryption parameters.

> * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. A name at the top level of the object. The value MUST be a human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text, providing any additional information used to assist the Client implementers in understanding the occurred error. The values for the `error_description` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set `%x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E`.

Reviewer 5: Don't think "name" fits well here..

Reviewer 3: All items in the list are parameters and are at the top level. We can simplify this as follows:
```suggestion
* `error_description`: OPTIONAL. The `error_description` parameter value MUST be a human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text, providing any additional information used to assist the Client implementers in understanding the occurred error. The values for the `error_description` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set `%x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E`.
```

Reviewer: +1 to @awoie's suggestion here

Author: I applied Oliver's suggestion, which uses the term "parameter".

Reviewer 5: the suggestion was not applied so I applied it just now.
